Bob Dylan, Titan Of American Music, Wins 2016 Nobel Prize In Literature

Bob Dylan performs in Chicago in 1978. He is the first American to claim the Nobel Prize in literature since Toni Morrison won in 1993.
Paul Natkin/Getty Images

Bob Dylan has won the 2016 Nobel Prize in literature. The prolific musician is the first Nobel winner to have forged a career primarily as a singer-songwriter. What's more, he's also the first American to have won the prize in more than two decades. Not since novelist Toni Morrison won in 1993 has an American claimed the prize.

Dylan earned the prize "for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition," according to the citation by the Swedish Academy, the committee that annually decides the recipient of the Nobel Prize. The academy's permanent secretary, Sara Danius, announced the news Thursday.

The win comes as something of a shock. As usual, the Swedish Academy did not announce a shortlist of nominees, leaving the betting markets to their best guesses. And while Dylan has enjoyed perennial favor as an outside shot for the award, the prospect that the musician would be the one to break the Americans' long dry spell was regarded as far-fetched — not least because he made his career foremost on the stage, not the printed page.

Yet few would argue Dylan has been anything but influential, both in the U.S. and beyond its borders. The prolific singer, songwriter and multi-instrumentalist has produced dozens of albums, including The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan, Highway 61 Revisited and Blood on the Tracks. His track "Like a Rolling Stone" has taken on mythic standing in the decades since its release; many, including Dylan himself, have pointed to it as emblematic of a sea change in American music.

"Tin Pan Alley is gone," Dylan proclaimed in 1985, referring the dominant conventions established by music publishers of the early 20th century. "I put an end to it. People can record their own songs now."

Dylan, who was born Robert Allen Zimmerman in 1941, "has the status of an icon," the Swedish Academy wrote in a biographical note. "His influence on contemporary music is profound, and he is the object of a steady stream of secondary literature."

In an interview following the announcement, Danius elaborated on the Swedish Academy's decision: "He is a great poet in the English-speaking tradition, and he is a wonderful sampler — a very original sampler," Danius explained. "For 54 years now he has been at it and reinventing himself, constantly creating a new identity."

And for his work, he has been amply recognized by critical community. Dylan has won Grammys, an Academy Award, a Golden Globe and a Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the U.S. Now, to that trove of honors Dylan has added a Nobel.

The Nobel Prize in literature has been awarded since 1901 to writers who have produced "the most outstanding work in an ideal direction." In that time, 109 prizes have been distributed to 113 writers. This year, the prize carries with it a purse of approximately $900,000 and, as usual, inclusion on literature's most illustrious list — the pantheon of Nobel winners.

The 75-year-old artist will receive his award in Stockholm on Dec. 10.

Wells Fargo, Samsung And Volkswagen: Can A Good Name Be Restored?.

After last month's televised congressional hearings, Wells Fargo's top executive, John Stumpf, had become the face of the company's sham-accounts scandal. He retired Wednesday.

Stumpf's downfall was the latest twist in a strange, yearlong tale about huge corporations taking their sterling reputations, tarnishing them and then frantically trying to restore luster.

Experts say undoing the harm won't be easy; great reputations can take decades to build.

And back in September 2015, each of these three companies was there — beloved not only as brands, but revered as symbols of national success:

    Volkwagen. The people's carmaker had helped resuscitate the postwar German economy. Seen as earnest and honorable, it made top-quality products.
    Wells Fargo. The huge banking company always played up its stage-coach logo to remind customers of its role in helping to build the American West, starting in the mid-1800s.
    Samsung. Over the past half-century, South Korea has shot up from one of the world's poorest countries to one of the wealthiest, and all because of a handful of great companies based there. None was bigger or better than Samsung, the sprawling conglomerate.

Despite their many achievements, by September 2016, each was caught up in a reputational crisis caused by a failure to do the right thing in a timely manner.

Experts are shocked

Now, in October, corporate-crisis experts are still a little in awe of the scope of the reputational damage hitting the three different companies in different parts of the world.

"It's really shocking, what happened," said Stephen Hahn-Griffiths, chief research officer at the Reputation Institute, a research and consulting firm. "It's going to take a long time for them to recover."

Last year, Hahn-Griffiths' firm had declared Samsung to be the No. 1 "most reputable technology company in the United States." It said the Seoul-based company's reputation with consumers, workers and competitors was "the gold standard."

But that was before Samsung's new Galaxy Note 7 smartphone began catching fire in August 2016. The company started recalling devices in September, and then the replacements began scorching people, too. Now Samsung has pulled the plug on its flagship phone.

At Wells Fargo, the company's image has been taking a beating in recent weeks as lawmakers, regulators and consumer groups have criticized it for having employees open bank and credit card accounts without customers' authorization.

The company fired low-level employees while top executives were still hanging on.

"They threw 5,300 employees under the bus," said Howard Fencl, vice president for Hennes Communications, a crisis-management consulting firm. "It's very hard for anyone to believe that individuals in leadership weren't cognizant of what was happening" with the unauthorized accounts, he said.

So at last, Stumpf has stepped down, but it's tough for any bank to get back into the good graces of customers, Hahn-Griffiths said. That's because the financial crisis of 2008-2009 made the whole banking sector look terrible, he said.

"Wells Fargo has rekindled a lot of negative feelings" that had never fully faded away, he said.

And then there's Volkswagen, which got itself enmeshed in an epic scandal involving cheating on emissions tests. Revelations of wrongdoing severely depressed sales of Volkswagens.

All three companies have handled their reputational problems poorly, Fencl said. "Information has come out in dribs and drabs. That's just not the way to handle it," he said.

21st century response to crisis

In the face of an erupting scandal, companies need to quickly come clean and say "we're going to do better; we never want to see this happen again," he said. But that can be especially hard for very large companies, he said.

"Their cultures are restrained by red tape; that's what holds people back from getting out in front of problems," Fencl said.

Gene Grabowski, a partner with Kglobal.com, a consulting firm, said the need to respond immediately to potential scandals is growing because of social media. New platforms allow people to share pictures of melting phones or other product problems.

He said he tells executives: "Welcome to the 21st century."

Many bosses still think they can hide problems and spin events. "You used to be able to stand on your side of the wall and throw things over" to a passive audience, he said. "But social media has torn down the walls."

All of the experts interviewed say the three great companies will bounce back eventually, just as Toyota recovered from its acceleration-related scandal a few years ago.

"What all three of these companies have going for them is longevity; they are old brands and they were highly trusted," Fencl said. "They have a store of brand equity that they can draw on" as they work to restore their good names.

And that's the way many consumers see it, too. They may be turned off for a while, but many can be lured back to eating at Chipotle or driving a Toyota.

Dale Welcome, a federal employee on his lunch break in Washington, said he likes his Samsung phone and is willing to give the company another chance. "I am assuming that by the time I buy another one, they will fix the problem," he said.

He likes having Samsung phones, "just as long as they are not still catching on fire," he said.

The 200 billion dollar chatbot disruption

In the last post, we highlighted the disruption that chatbot technologies are poised to make in call centers. To recap, we are seeing the trend that Generation X and Y have now shown a preference for text-based communication over voice. This results in consumers increasingly wanting to talk with brands via messaging platforms like Whatsapp and Facebook Messenger. Simultaneously, there has been an explosion of conversational A.I. technology tools and frameworks in which natural language processing can be used to automate customer support inquiries. As the last installment discussed, this trend provides a compelling opportunity for companies to drastically reduce the costs of running their call centers.
screenshot_2016-06-26-16-52-47_720

But the disruption goes further. As customer/brand conversations increasingly start taking place via text, and increased datasets allow NLP bots to start handling more and more of the conversations, we are going to see the consolidation of “voice” within the brand. Rather than having hundreds or thousands of low-paid customer support agents, each with their own personalities (and susceptible to human emotions), the call center staff will be greatly reduced to expert bot managers (see below). The NLP engines that replace the workforce will be trained with a common dataset, and in that dataset will be a consistent corpus of creative content representing how the brand wants to project itself to its consumers.

Let’s explore this concept through an example. Consider Progressive, the insurance company. The first thing that comes to mind to the American consumer when thinking about Progressive is not its mission statement of “reducing the human trauma and economic costs associated with automobile accidents.” Rather, the immediate recall to the consumer is Flo, the sassy insurance agent who helps customers make the right decision when purchasing an insurance package. There are countless commercials starring Flo, and an extensive marketing budget behind the persona. Applying the above concept to Progressive’s call center, no longer will consumers be interacting with Becky from Dallas or Richard from Manila when conversing with Progressive over messaging platforms — they’ll be able to talk with Flo, overseen by a much smaller set of highly trained customer support agents.

Have a question about a particular insurance package? Flo can answer your question. Want to get price comparisons between Progressive and Geico? Again, Flo can help, with the same sassy personality that the consumer has come to expect when thinking about the Progressive brand. This will extend throughout the entire customer journey, starting from the top of the funnel with marketing campaigns (TV commercials, digital advertising), continuing to the sale of product (ecommerce checkout, reducing shopping cart abandonment), and maintaining the customer relationship through support (automating call center inquiries), which ultimately comes full circle and leads into the next customer journey cycle.

Every brand will be able to capitalize on this trend. Think of any notable brand and its corresponding marketing persona. Disney and Mickey Mouse. Priceline and Shatner. The emotions these personas evoke are incredibly powerful, and brands are just touching the surface of the possibilities they can leverage with these personas. Chatbots will allow any brand to create (or purchase) a recognizable persona that can take the customer through not just the TV commercial, but the entire customer journey.  All of this is made possible by the shift in media that consumers are going through in which the preferred interaction is not in a retail store or on the phone, it’s through text.
Executing at scale

There are many adjustments that brands will need to make in order to keep pace with the changing customer support landscape. Four of the most important are as follows:

    Creative content writers. There is an intractable number of permutations that exist in written conversation. Machine learning and NLP aim to manage this through pattern recognition, but there will still need to be building blocks of content. In the beginning, these building blocks will need to be numerous. As NLP technology advances, this will reduce over time. In the immediate future, brands will need to invest heavily in creating rich content that represents their brand persona. Referring again to the Progressive example, there will need to be creative writers emulating the conversation that Flo will have with consumers about the Progressive product line.

    Establishing identity in messaging media. When Twitter emerged, it created a new medium in which consumers could discourse publicly with brands. Messaging platforms take the conversation into a more granular and more intimate interaction. As such, brands will need to establish their identities in these new media, replete with pervasive broadcasting of how to reach the brand with their new messaging handles, and proper brand etiquette in these new media.

    Data science. Machine learning technology will be increasingly utilized in the enterprise over the next decade. Companies will need to get access to data science specialists who can help to customize the technology for their particular datasets and use cases.

    Bot managers. As with most disruption coming from automation, chatbots will not completely automate the call center workforce. Rather, a subset of much higher skilled (and much higher paid) workers will be needed who can oversee the NLP bots. These bot managers will be responsible for ensuring quality results as well as providing feedback into the NLP engine to increase accuracies over time. Companies will need to invest in training these workers since there are currently no formal educational or vocational programs for these skills.

There are many other implications of chatbots and brands to be explored in future posts. In the next post we will look into the “goldmine in the call center,” where we will illustrate how brands can capture new sales and marketing opportunities through messaging mediums. Stay tuned.

WikiLeaks email hack shows Clinton aides infighting

New documents posted online by WikiLeaks show the dynamics of Hillary Clinton's inner circle - and how they really feel.

They were brutal and condescending - and that was with each other.

Emails from the account of John Podesta, Mrs Clinton's campaign chairman, reveal what it's like to work on her staff. He said Russians hacked his email account - and sounded furious about it.

Critics have welcomed the disclosures - and said not enough people are paying attention to them.

"Very little pick-up by the dishonest media of incredible information provided by WikiLeaks," Donald Trump tweeted. "So dishonest! Rigged system!"

He's right about one thing: the disclosures are fascinating.

There's no smoking gun, but the exchanges do lift the lid on the secret lives of aides and advisers, and reveal what campaigns are really like.

The Clinton campaign - and staff - have been notoriously opaque.

They've allowed only a small number of people into their inner circle, and they've guarded zealously against leaks and disclosures of information.

As a result, very few people know the mechanics of the inner circle - how decisions are made and what kind of manager Mrs Clinton is.

The revelations in the emails were obtained illegally, but they've offered an insight into the campaign's methods - and how its staff may be managed if she wins next month's election.

Campaigns, as the emails show, are a nasty business.

In one (of many) examples of office politics, some of which were just released and others that have surfaced during recent searches, one adviser, Cheryl Mills, jokes around with another, Jake Sullivan, about a former colleague, Anne-Marie Slaughter, who wrote a lot of emails.

Neither Ms Mills nor Mr Sullivan seemed to appreciate Ms Slaughter's notes, or the way she lavished Mrs Clinton with praise.

In May 2015, Ms Slaughter described Clinton's work as a diplomat.

"You changed the frame," wrote Ms Slaughter, ccing Ms Mills, Mr Sullivan and other aides.

Ms Mills, who has worked for Mrs Clinton for years, reminds Mr Sullivan in a separate email that she has received a steady stream of these notes.

Mr Sullivan tells Ms Mills - emphatically - that he did not invite Ms Slaughter to his wedding. (Ms Mills had asked, sceptically, if he had.)

A catty exchange, one they probably wish had remained private. But there's more.

In May 2015, Mr Podesta gossips about one of Mrs Clinton's old friends, Sidney Blumenthal.

Mr Podesta says Blumenthal lacks either "self awareness or self respect, adding to a colleague: "Will you promise to shoot me if I ever end up like that?"

In another exchange from November 2014, Philippe Reines, Mrs Clinton's veteran aide, writes about an issue familiar to anyone who has worked in an office: subject headings of emails that don't reflect its contents.

He says he's not willing to put up with such imprecise wording.

"I'm not living like this for the next two years," he writes.

In a November 2011 email exchange, Huma Abedin, one of Clinton's closest aides, has a fraught exchange with a Clinton Foundation executive about space allocation in a New York office.

In another email, Ms Abedin, reinforcing the insular nature of their circle, talked about the dangers of providing information to journalists.

"Can we survive not answering questions from press at message events," she wondered.

Mr Podesta said that avoiding journalists was a bad idea, describing it as suicidal.

Nerves get frayed in every workplace - and especially during a campaign.

As a former campaign manager, Patti Solis Doyle, who worked on the 2008 campaign, explained, things can get dicey, especially for managers.

"Sometimes I am not very popular," she told me. (She was fired a couple of months later.)

Yet the emails also show how members of Clinton's inner circle resolve conflict.

In April 2015, her aides discussed at length a phrase she would use in a speech at a New Hampshire furniture store.

Mr Podesta thought she should say "everyday Americans".

He admitted, however, that she wasn't fond of the formulation.

He and a colleague ultimately decided the phrase should be part of the speech - despite their boss's hesitation.

He and other aides also obsessed over what people said about them - and tried to head off negative media coverage.

In an email from January 2009, they discussed someone who'd apparently worked on Mrs Clinton's campaign - and had been arrested "for running a prostitution ring".

Whether navigating the politics of the inner circle or fending off potential attacks from the outside world, the aides and advisers spend much of their time managing relationships.

If nothing else, the emails show the extent to which staffers work to maintain a delicate power balance within the inner sanctum of Mrs Clinton's world - and try to build relationships with people outside this bubble.

In one email, Mr Podesta plans to attend a private dinner with David Miliband, a former British foreign secretary who had met Clinton years ago.

In another, Claudio Bisogniero, the ambassador of Italy to the US, pressed Mr Podesta to meet an Italian official at the White House.

"This is really important for me," Mr Bisogniero wrote to Mr Podesta, adding: "I count on your personal friendship on this."

As the emails show, the ties that Mr Miliband and Mr Bisogniero, as well as other foreign officials, have with Clinton advisors run deep.

These relationships are likely to become even stronger if she's elected president.

The disclosure of the emails are an unwelcome distraction for Mr Podesta and the campaign staff.

They were also obtained by breaking into his account.

That's a crime.

But still, the emails shed light on important issues.

They are a window into a world that has been shrouded in secrecy.

They show how Mrs Clinton's aides and advisers get along - who matters to them, and who doesn't.

These relationships may help to define the next administration - and guide its policymaking and statecraft into the future.

President Obama Really Wants People To Live On Mars

For years, President Obama has been saying the U.S. must send humans to Mars. Permanently.

There was the 2010 speech when he said, "By the mid-2030s, I believe we can send humans to orbit Mars and return them safely to Earth. And a landing on Mars will follow. And I expect to be around to see it."

There was that time in 2012 when he said the Curiosity rover was inspiring kids to tell "their moms and dads they want to be part of a Mars mission — maybe even the first person to walk on Mars." And there were those other times he told kids visiting the White House that they might go to Mars someday.

And, of course, the 2015 State of the Union address when he called for the U.S. to push out into the solar system "not just to visit, but to stay."

Today, the president said it again.

"We have set a clear goal vital to the next chapter of America's story in space: sending humans to Mars by the 2030s and returning them safely to Earth, with the ultimate ambition to one day remain there for an extended time," the president wrote in an op-ed published by CNN.

"Getting to Mars will require continued cooperation between government and private innovators, and we're already well on our way," he wrote. "Within the next two years, private companies will for the first time send astronauts to the International Space Station."

The president continued:

    "The next step is to reach beyond the bounds of Earth's orbit. I'm excited to announce that we are working with our commercial partners to build new habitats that can sustain and transport astronauts on long-duration missions in deep space. These missions will teach us how humans can live far from Earth — something we'll need for the long journey to Mars."

Several commercial spaceflight companies have also announced plans to aim for Mars in the coming decades.

Last week, for example, Boeing's CEO announced, "I'm convinced the first person to step foot on Mars will arrive there riding a Boeing rocket." Blue Origin, owned by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, is testing rockets to bring humans into orbit "and beyond." And the defense and space contractor Orbital ATK is building and testing rocket boosters for a future human mission to Mars.

A Dutch venture called Mars One hopes to colonize Mars by 2025, and has been taking applications from would-be travelers for years, although it acknowledges that it will rely on "major aerospace companies" for transportation.
Are Humans Really Headed To Mars Anytime Soon?
Science
Are Humans Really Headed To Mars Anytime Soon?

In September, SpaceX CEO Elon Musk announced a yet-to-be-built rocket system that he said would put people on Mars by 2025, and would eventually transport enough people to the red planet to start a permanent colony.

Musk predicted any Mars mission would require "a huge public-private partnership."

A 2014 report by the National Research Council found federal funding for human spaceflight programs has not been robust enough to achieve the president's goals for Mars. "Pronouncements by multiple presidents of bold new ventures by Americans to the Moon, to Mars, and to an asteroid in its native orbit, have not been matched by the same commitment that accompanied President Kennedy's now fabled 1961 speech," the report's overview reads.

But Obama appears undeterred.

"Someday I hope to hoist my own grandchildren onto my shoulders," the president writes. "We'll still look to the stars in wonder, as humans have since the beginning of time. But instead of eagerly awaiting the return of our intrepid explorers, we'll know that because of the choices we make now, they've gone to space not just to visit, but to stay — and in doing so, to make our lives better here on Earth."

Later this week, Obama will host the White House Frontiers Conference in Pittsburgh, where the White House says the five "frontiers of innovation" up for discussion are personal, local, national, global and interplanetary.

Thai King Bhumibol Adulyadej, World's Longest-Reigning Monarch, Dies

Thailand's King Bhumibol Adulyadej is pushed in a wheelchair while leaving Bangkok's Siriraj Hospital for the Grand Palace for a ceremony celebrating his birthday in 2011.

Thailand's revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who was a unifying force in a country riven by politics and coups, has died at the age of 88, according to the royal palace.

"Even though the board of doctors has closely monitored and treated him to the best of its abilities, the king's condition never improved but deteriorated until Thursday," the palace said in a statement, according to The Associated Press.

Bhumibol had suffered from health problems for most of the past decade. The palace had said Sunday that he was "not stable" following a medical procedure, as The Two-Way has reported.

Bhumibol was the world's longest-reigning monarch, reporter Michael Sullivan tells Morning Edition. He became king in 1946 at the age of 19.

"When King Bhumibol ascended the throne, World War II had just ended, India was still part of the British Empire and France still occupied Thailand's neighbors, Cambodia and Laos and also Vietnam," Sullivan reports.

The king was born in Cambridge, Mass., and grew up in Europe. Because of that, "expectations for him were quite low when he originally came back from Switzerland to take the throne and be in Thailand full time," Michael Montesano, a senior fellow at Singapore's Institute of Southeast Asian Studies, told Sullivan.

But he stepped into the role quickly and was viewed as a stabilizing force at a delicate time in Thai history.

"He will be seen as a man who played a very important and in many ways benign role in achieving integration in a Southeast Asian state during a time when much of Southeast Asia was coming apart and the Cold War was doing terrible damage to the region," Montesano added.

And while Bhumibol had a massive fortune, he was also considered "remarkably down-to-earth," The Associated Press reported. "He rolled up his sleeves and hiked into impoverished villages and remote rice paddies to assess the state of his country and help resolve everything from water and food shortages to family squabbles," the wire service added. The king also played the trumpet and was passionate about jazz.

The Thai economy grew rapidly from the 1960s to the 1990s, Sullivan reports, but "development of strong democratic institutions didn't keep pace." He spoke with Chiang Mai University's Paul Chambers, who said Bhumibol was more focused on maintaining order:

    "This was not a king bent on developing democracy, I think his main interest was ensuring that order would prevail and that it would be an order that would ensure the durability of the monarchy, A powerful monarch in alliance with a military that would stand above parliamentary democracy."

The beloved king's death raises concerns about the future of the Thai monarchy. Bhumibol was far more popular than his son and heir apparent, 64-year-old crown Prince Vajiralongkorn.

NPR's Greg Myre explained that this has raised "questions about what role the monarchy will play this time and in the future."

A Thai woman cries as she prays for Thailand's King Bhumibol Adulyadej on Thursday outside Siriraj Hospital, where he was being treated, in Bangkok.

Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said in a speech to the nation Thursday that "an heir to the throne had been designated since 1972 and that the government would inform parliament of the choice," according to Reuters. He did not specifically name Vajiralongkorn, who was designated crown prince in 1972.

Chan-ocha said that "civil servants would observe mourning for a year," according to Reuters. He called upon Thais "to refrain from 'festivities' for 30 days."

Most Thais have never known any other king. Crowds had gathered outside the Siriraj Hospital on Thursday to pray for the ailing monarch. Some clutched framed photos of the king.

Among the group outside the hospital was Parichart Kaewsin, who spoke with Reuters after the palace announced the king had died. "I knew he was sick, but I still can't believe this day has come," she told the wire service. "That's why I came here — to hear it for myself. ... He was like our dad."

Others expressed their grief on social media:

U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon highlighted Bhumibol's "long dedication to his country and his legacy as a unifying national leader" in a statement from his spokesman. "He was revered by the people of Thailand and highly respected internationally."

New Evidence Suggests Humans Arrived In The Americas Far Earlier Than Thought.

Researchers in Southern California say they've uncovered evidence that humans lived there 130,000 years ago.

If it's true, it would be the oldest sign of humans in the Americas ever — predating the best evidence up to now by about 115,000 years. And the claim has scientists wondering whether to believe it.

In 1992, archaeologists working a highway construction site in San Diego County found the partial skeleton of a mastodon, an elephant-like animal now extinct. Mastodon skeletons aren't so unusual, but there was other strange stuff with it.

"The remains were in association with a number of sharply broken rocks and broken bones," says Tom Deméré, a paleontologist at the San Diego Natural History Museum. He says the rocks showed clear marks of having been used as hammers and an anvil. And some of the mastodon bones as well as a tooth showed fractures characteristic of being whacked, apparently with those stones.

It looked like the work of humans. Yet there were no cut marks on the bones showing that the animal was butchered for meat. Deméré thinks these people were after something else. "The suggestion is that this site is strictly for breaking bone," Deméré says, "to produce blank material, raw material to make bone tools or to extract marrow." Marrow is a rich source of fatty calories.

The scientists knew they'd uncovered something rare. But they didn't realize just how rare for years, until they got a reliable date on how old the bones were by using a uranium-thorium dating technology that didn't exist in the 1990s.

The bones were 130,000 years old. That's a jaw-dropping date, as other evidence shows that the earliest humans got to the Americas about 15,000 to 20,000 years ago.

"That is an order of magnitude difference. Wow," says John Shea, an archaeologist at New York's Stony Brook University who specializes in studying ancient toolmaking. "If it's correct, then there's an extraordinarily ancient dispersal to the New World that has a very different archaeological signature from anything left behind by recent humans."

Shea says it's different because Stone Age toolmakers usually leave behind stone flakes — sharp pieces broken or "knapped" from certain kinds of rock that serve as cutting implements. There were none at the California site. Another odd thing: no signs that the mastodon was butchered for the meat.

"This is weird," Shea says. "It's an outlier in terms of what archaeological sites from that time range look like everywhere else on the planet." He suggests these bones might have been broken up by natural causes — by a mudflow, perhaps, or by the trampling of animals sometime after the mastodon died.

Another skeptic is John McNabb, an archaeologist at the University of Southampton in England. His question: How did those people get to California?

Twenty thousand years ago, archaeologists agree, people did cross over to Alaska from Siberia, perhaps more than once. Sea levels were lower then and there was a land bridge connecting the continents. In an interview with the journal Nature, which published the California research, McNabb says that land bridge wasn't there 130,000 years ago. "The sea lane in between the two continents [was] wider [then]," he says, "so that's one problem with this: How do we get humans across?"

McNabb says what's needed to really prove that this is truly an archaeological site are bones from the people who got there.

The California team counters that it has spent over 20 years examining the evidence. "I know people will be skeptical with this because it is so surprising," says team member and archaeologist Steve Holen, "and I was skeptical when I first looked at the material myself. But it's definitely an archaeological site."

Holen, with the Center for American Paleolithic Research, says these early people could have come across in boats. As for the broken bones, he says the type of fracture isn't accidental. And the way the hammerstones and bones were distributed in the ground doesn't look natural.

One question the team can't answer is who these people were. A genetic technique that uses mutations in a population's genome as a sort of "clock" says the first common ancestor of Native Americans lived about 20,000 years ago. So if there were indeed earlier settlers, it could be they made an arduous migration from Siberia, only to die out without leaving any descendants.

Trump Administration Proposes 'Massive' Tax Overhaul And Tax Cut Plan.

The Trump administration Wednesday put forth a proposal that it labeled a "massive" tax overhaul, which would give big tax cuts to individuals and corporations and reduce the number of tax brackets and deductions.

Outlined at a White House press briefing by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Gary Cohn, director of the president's National Economic Council, it would reduce the number of individual tax brackets to three, as well as eliminate most tax deductions other than for home mortgages, charitable contributions and retirement savings.

It would double the standard deduction individuals can take and proposes cutting the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent.

The plan would exempt the first $24,000 of income from taxation. It would also repeal the estate tax and the alternative minimum tax, which could benefit wealthy taxpayers, including President Trump himself.

The plan would also eliminate the deduction for state and local taxes, a step that could hurt taxpayers in places with high state taxes such as California and New York.

Administration officials acknowledge the plan is a broad brush outline, with specific details yet to be determined.

Among the details that remain to be revealed, or worked out, is the overall cost of the plan and whether it would be revenue-neutral or add to the deficit. Mnuchin said the plan "will pay for itself with growth" and with the reduction of deductions and loopholes.

It's also unclear at what income levels the new proposed tax rates would kick in.

The plan was released as the Trump administration scrambles to show its accomplishments as it nears the 100-day mark on April 29, but the plan is far from complete — and far from becoming law.

Republicans responded favorably to the proposal. A statement from House Speaker Paul Ryan, along with the chairmen of the House and Senate tax-writing committees, said, "The principles outlined by the Trump Administration today will serve as critical guideposts for Congress and the Administration as we work together to overhaul the American tax system and ensure middle-class families and job creators are better positioned for the 21st century economy."

Democrats see it differently. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called the outline "short on details and long on giveaways to big corporations and billionaires." And top Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee labeled it "a rerun of the same failed tax policy that led to the Bush tax cuts in 2001 and 2003, which cost us trillions of dollars, did nothing to help working families, and, in part, contributed to the Great Recession."

Speaking Wednesday, Mnuchin also addressed the issue of the president's personal tax returns. The Treasury secretary said Trump "has no intention" of releasing his own tax returns and asserted that the president has "given more financial disclosure than anyone else."

Democrats have said they want to see how any tax overhaul would affect the president's taxes before agreeing to sign on to any tax cuts. It is unclear how serious a demand that is, but at the very least, cutting taxes and overhauling the system to the extent the Trump administration wants is going to require lengthy negotiations and compromise, and the final outcome is far from assured.

Cassini Spacecraft Starts Weaving Between Saturn And Its Rings.

If all goes to plan, NASA's Cassini spacecraft will beam new images of Saturn and its rings to Earth early Thursday, sharing data collected Wednesday from its first dive through the gap between the planet and its striped belt of ice and rock particles.

Today's dive also marks the start of the final phase in the craft's 13-year visit to Saturn. Days ago, it used the gravity of Saturn's moon Titan to bend its path toward its eventual destruction on the planet.

Cassini descended below the ring plane around 5 a.m. ET Wednesday, but the antenna it would normally use to send images is instead being used to deflect potentially harmful objects away from its instruments. As it performed the move, the craft's Twitter feed announced, "Shields Up!"

"Because that gap is a region no spacecraft has ever explored, Cassini will use its dish-shaped high-gain antenna (13 feet or 4 meters across) as a protective shield while passing through the ring plane," NASA says. "No particles larger than smoke particles are expected, but the precautionary measure is being taken on the first dive."

For today's maneuver, the craft crossed the ring plane as it moved from north to south across Saturn. The gap between Saturn and its rings is about 1,500 miles wide.

Cassini is expected to get back in touch with the Deep Space Network antenna in Goldstone, Calif., by around 3 a.m. ET Thursday; the first images should be available shortly afterward, NASA says.

The move is the first in what NASA is calling Cassini's Grand Finale, as it weaves its way between Saturn and its rings in a series of 22 dives that will culminate in what the agency describes as "a science-rich plunge into Saturn's atmosphere on Sept. 15."

Cassini was launched in 1997; its mission is slated to end one month before the 20-year mark.

Among the photos sent back by Cassini is a unique view of Earth as seen from Saturn, in what was hailed as a new perspective of our "pale blue dot" in space.

When that image was released in 2013, the Two-Way wrote, "Earth and all its trillions of creatures are seen as a speck of light — lower right — in the vastness of space. What's more, Cassini captures Earth while also capturing Saturn's rings."

Energy Star Program For Homes And Appliances Is On Trump's Chopping Block.

Appliance manufacturers and home builders are in Washington, D.C., today to celebrate a popular energy efficiency program, even as it's slated for elimination in President Trump's proposed budget.

You probably know the program's little blue label with the star — the Environmental Protection Agency says 90 percent of U.S. households do.

"The Energy Star brand has brand recognition on par with, like, Coke and Pepsi," says Steve Byers, CEO of EnergyLogic. His company, which is among those receiving an Energy Star award at this year's event, inspects buildings to make sure they qualify for the program's seal of approval. "This is a very successful program," he says. "I don't know what more one could want out of a government program."

In fact, the 25-year-old Energy Star program appears to be targeted simply because it's run by the federal government. It's one of 50 EPA programs that would be axed under Trump's budget plan, which would shrink the agency's funding by more than 30 percent. (The U.S. Department of Energy also helps administer Energy Star, and would see a 5.6 percent budget cut.)

Critics of Energy Star say the government should get involved in the marketplace only when absolutely necessary. But that argument doesn't hold sway for the program's legions of supporters, which span nonprofits, companies and trade groups.

"These cuts make no sense," says Lowell Ungar, senior policy adviser with the nonprofit American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. His group, along with about 80 other nonprofits and companies, has written to Congress urging it to keep the program. More than 1,000 companies have called for strengthening the program in another letter, organized by the Alliance to Save Energy.

"The bottom line is proposed cuts to Energy Star would harm American consumers, they would destroy jobs, and they would make air pollution worse," Ungar says.

The federal government launched Energy Star in 1992 to rate the efficiency of computer monitors. Now it covers dozens of product categories, from washers to electronics and homes.

Here's how it works: The government sets criteria for efficient products. A third party inspects goods or housing, and if they meet the criteria, manufacturers can use the familiar blue sticker to market the product as energy-efficient.

In a North Denver development called Midtown, Steve Eagleburger of EnergyLogic was recently inspecting a home while construction workers put on finishing touches. This part of the Energy Star program has existed since 1995.

"What we're doing here is checking to make sure this attic is insulated," Eagleburger said as he stood on a ladder and peered through a raised attic hatch. "This one is not insulated at all."

He makes a note on a tablet, then he's off to the next thing — a checklist of dozens of items such as fans and air-duct seals. This house won't get the Energy Star label unless it fulfills all the requirements.

Energy Star is a voluntary program. It costs about $50 million a year to run, but punches above its weight in impact. In 2014, the EPA estimates the program helped American consumers and businesses save $34 billion and prevent more than 300 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions.

A study published last month in the journal Nature Energy found that Energy Star-rated buildings in Los Angeles used nearly 20 percent less energy compared with other buildings.

The little blue label also has an audience in countries such as Mexico and Canada.

"We do see that actually as a distinguishing factor," says Mike Gazzano of Delta Products, which makes fans for bathroom ventilation and other uses. He says customers consider Energy Star the mark of "a premium product" in terms of engineering and technology.

The idea for eliminating Energy Star might have come from conservative groups such as the Heritage Foundation, which targets a range of efficiency programs in its own budget blueprint.

"This is something that the private sector can market and sell as a great quality for their product. So why is the government trying to nudge people in one direction when they simply shouldn't need to," says Nick Loris, an energy and environment policy fellow at the foundation.

Another critic is Myron Ebell, a climate change skeptic with the Competitive Enterprise Institute and head of Trump's EPA transition team. "It's good that Energy Star is a voluntary program," he says in a statement, "but it's not clear why taxpayer dollars should be used to promote some products over other products."

Energy Star has also weathered a scandal. In 2010, workers at the Government Accountability Office posed as product developers and got the Energy Star label for fictitious products. That launched the third-party certification that exists now.

Doug Johnson, vice president of technology policy with the trade group Consumer Technology Association, says that process can take time out of the already crunched product development cycle.

"It's a part of the program that we think should be reexamined," he says. "In fact we've been advocates for improving that part of the Energy Star program."

Johnson says there are other successful federal programs such as EnergyGuide that measure efficiency. Still, he doesn't think the entire Energy Star program should go away.

Ultimately, it will be up to Congress to decide whether shoppers continue to see the familiar blue sticker on goods in the showroom.
